[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: Let's start by
writing our first component and
getting something on the pages
just as fast as we possibly can.
So we're not gonna use JSX right now, no
transpilation, we're just gonna be pulling
in a bare bones version of react and
then just rendering something.
Just to show you that you
can actually write, react
really quickly that you don't actually
need all this other build stuff pull in.
All that's conveniences and
if you don't want the conveniences
you don't have to have them.
>> Brian Holt: I'm gonna be
drawing some parallels between,
>> Brian Holt: Angular, Backbone,
Knockout, Ember, all that kind of stuff.
Usually most of the Angular because
that's what I did before Angular 1,
right not Angular 2.
But just like no,
these are those are definitely more
frameworks certainly Angular and
Ember are.
And I'm gonna be using
the term Angular and
frame or using the term framework and
library interchangeably.
Those terms actually
aren't interchangeable.
But I don't want to differentiate,
so I'm not going to.
>> Brian Holt: [COUGH] Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So this is
constantly an argument people have,
is Reaction a framework or
is it a library?
I think the answer is really, it can
be whatever you choose to use it for.
You really can treat react like
a framework and if anyone tells you
otherwise it either don't understand react
in the true the way you can use it or
they're just, I don't know,
stuck on the word framework being a bad
word which I don't think it's a bad word.
I think Ember in particular embraces
the framework term really well.
But in truth what React aims to
fill is the view layer, right.
Like in the MVC array or the MVVM or
MV Star, whatever you wanna call it.
It really aims to fulfill the view part,
right.
So if you're writing backbone, right,
it really aims to be the view and
then it allows you to basically
define your own models and
allow you to define your own
controllers or view controllers.
Whatever you wanna call.
Don't get me wrong again.
You can manage these sorts of
things inside of reactors.
Just many choose not to put that way.
And then eventually, we're gonna move
all of that model type data out of React
anyway when we start using Redux later.
>> Brian Holt: And yeah, so
we're gonna start building our
little app piece by piece.
So let's go ahead and
open your project here.
Let's see.
So, I want you to open index.HTML
inside of your project.
Again make sure you're on the start branch
that you're not on the master branch
because otherwise, this seem to
look slightly different, okay?
So, first thing we want to do here.
Is we're gonna put two
script tags here at the top.
Why is this, I'm gonna re-indent
these set fours or two spaces.
Okay, so I'm gonna say
src=node_modules/react/dist/react.js.
So we're just going to put
the precompiled react.
And by the same token we're going
to be pulling in react-dom as well.
>> Brian Holt: And actually, you probably
want this to be at the bottom so you can
with that to top that doesn't really
matter but whatever you would like to do.
Okay?
We're going to another script tag here.
>> Brian Holt: And we're gonna start
pulling in some things that we need,
okay?.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
this always infuriates people.
And it's an opinion, right?
You don't have to use semicolons and I'm
just like I'm just like look of horror on
people's faces like but I need my
semi-colons and I love my semi-colons.
That sweet period comma
combination just does it for me.
No you don't have to and it's okay.
We're gonna be using something called
standard JS which is going to or
standard is actually what it's called.
That actually won't allow
you to use comp semi-colons.
So my invitation for you is, one try it.
And see that eventually,
especially when you're writing reactors.
Lots of like parenthesis and curly
braces and things that you can be using.
And it's nice not to have to worry about,
do I need to put a semicolon here or
not, right?
At least I always have that problem.
So I invite you to try not using
something semi-colons today.
And if you just can't do it, totally fine
I'll give you the escape hatch later.
But just give it a shot.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
So by pulling these two
modules right here.
They're making a globally
available react just so
you know that's why we're
able to say React.DOM.div.
And that's okay.
Okay, and now we're going to make
our very own first component So,
var MyFirstComponent equals = and
I wanna use just parentheses here.
We're using parenthesis because we
want to do this on multiple lines.
So, we can kinda see the way
that the nesting is working.
And that's gonna be very helpful to us.
And the parenthesis basically allow
you to do multiline expression.
If you didn't have that parenthesis there,
JavaScript would throw an error
cuz it's like you said equals nothing
blank and it would be upset about that.
Okay.
So, we're gonna say div.
Div's a function.
First thing we pass to is null because
we're not giving it any context.
And then the second thing on
the next line, it's gonna be the h1,
again with null and say,
this is my first component or
whatever string you want to put in
there that you expect to show up.
Okay, then I'm gonna come
down here underneath it and
say ReactDOM.render.
MyFirstComponent, and then we'll say,
document.getElementByID('app')) and
that's it.
Okay?
>> Brian Holt: So go ahead and save that.
And then come over here to your
browser and just in a new tab open.
Where wherever your, you put your project.
I put mine here.
So this is the index.HTML
that we were just working on.
I'm gonna open it in my browser.
>> Brian Holt: And
again you can do that in Chrome.
If you just go to Chrome
you say File > Open File.
Just so you know.
So check it out.
That's react.
So hopefully you now realize that,
actually, react is pretty simple.
In terms of, it's not very hard
to get something on a page.
And I think a lot of tutorials go, make
you do way too much up front to try and
get this first hello world on the page.
It's cuz it's not really that difficult.
Like we did it in what,
how many lines of code?
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven.
>> Brian Holt: Seven lines of code
to get something on the page,
which is not bad at all.
>> Brian Holt: Any questions about that?
Magical, magical,
I'm gonna go with magical.
Okay, so let's go back and
chit chat a little bit about
what we actually did here.
Okay, so
the first thing you need to realize about
react components is
everything's a function right.
Now, so
they were calling the div function, right?
So, that's the first important thing
to keep in mind is that everything is
a function everything, except this
my first component in this in this
particular case is actually just kinda
the result of these two functions, right,
which is going to be a react element.
But we'll see later how to create
our own functional components.
This null, this is like the attributes
that we're passing to it.
So if I went ahead here and said, color or
actually it'll have to be style, color.
Style: }.
Now I saved it.
And it came back over here.
Now it's red.
So that's what this is.
These are the kind of attributes
that we're passing to it.
In fact, if we go here and
inspect element.
Inspect.
>> Brian Holt: You can see here it's
actually literally passing the style
attribute onto there.
So that's what that first part is.
It's the attributes that we're gonna
be supplying to our different,
let's see if I can make
this a little bit bigger.
>> Brian Holt: So this is actually like
the attributes that we'll be passing to
the various components.
>> Brian Holt: That's what that is.
Right now, we're gonna leave that null.
And then, as you can see it's just
different layers of nesting, right.
This kind of mimics the way that
we would write HTML, right.
Like we have like an outer tag
that's has inter-tags, right.
That makes some sense hopefully
if you've written any amount of
HTML
>> Brian Holt: And
you don't have to pull these out.
I just find this much easier to
read than if it looked like this.
>> Brian Holt: Right?
I mean that's what we're doing.
But I find it much easier to just pull
these out so it looks a little bit neater.
>> Brian Holt: And then ReactDOM.
Okay, so there is, there's react, right?
And react is just a particular
way of writing components.
So, whether you're writing react with for
the browser or
using ReactNative to write it for
iOS or ReactBliss to write it for
the command line or
ReactGL thread for Web GL Or
for example, we have an internal library
at Netflix that we write React for
your PS4 or we write React for
your smart TV, right?
So React is just that library that
allows you to write these components.
And then there's these various other
libraries like ReactDOM, ReactBliss,
etcetera, etcetera, that allow you to take
these components of you've written and
react and then throw them at
particular rendering targets, right?
So that's why React and
ReactDOM are separate packages, right.
React the way we write the components and
ReactDOM is the way that we put
the component that we've,
written on to the DOM.
So for example I really only use ReactDOM
but if you want to use ReactNative this
you'd pull ReactNative in to do
that instead of ReactDOM to them.
Hopefully make some sense.
Yeah, it actually used
to be the same thing.
ReactDOM used to be built in to react
because that's really the only way people
first started using it.
But then react native happened and
it all exploded into a bunch
of different packages.